README.md, before:

# Overview

CABS, or Canonical Benchmarking System, is a set of Juju Charms to repeatedly run benchmarks across multiple different substrates (bare metal[x86, POWER, ARM], public, private cloud) and continually improve on the services and benchmarks. CABS is able to perform the following tasks:
- determine which benchmarks can be run for a given environment
- list available benchmarks to run
- run and track benchmarks
- collect performance data
- report on results
- compare benchmark runs

The main intent is to allow folks interested in a given workload to repeatedly run a benchmark across multiple substrates, and enable quick experimentation to improve the service's performance. CABS takes care of the benchmarking infrastructure so the focus is on the science of tuning.

The CABS charm is the main way the user will interact with the benchmarking environment. The CABS charm provides a GUI that allows the user to perform the above mentioned actions.

CABS is a proprietary tool developed by Canonical built on top of Juju free to all [Certified Public Cloud](http://partners.ubuntu.com/programmes/public-cloud) partners.

# Getting the CABS charms

If you are reading this you may already have done the following steps. However, for the sake of completeness and reference be sure you have gotten the charms and placed them in a charm directory.

Set up a (local)[https://jujucharms.com/docs/stable/charms-deploying#deploying-from-a-local-repository] Juju Repository, an example follows:

    export JUJU_REPOSITORY=$HOME/charms
    mkdir -p $JUJU_REPOSITORY/trusty

Download the CABS and CABS Collector charms from LaunchPad

    cd $JUJU_REPOSITORY/trusty
    git clone git+ssh://<LP-USER>@git.launchpad.net/cabs
    git clone git+ssh://<LP-USER>@git.launchpad.net/cabs-collector
    
# Getting Started

This guide aims to lead a user from zero to benchmarking. Prerequisites include:
- Knowledge of [Juju](https://jujucharms.com) and how it [works](https://jujucharms.com/docs/stable/getting-started)
- [Juju 1.24 recommended](https://jujucharms.com/get-started), Juju 1.23 minimum
- A [Juju bootstrapped](https://jujucharms.com/docs/stable/getting-started) environment
- Downloaded CABS and CABS Collector charms


# Configuring CABS

Assuming you already have a Juju environment [bootstrapped](https://jujucharms.com/docs/stable/charms) you will first need to deploy the cabs and cabs-collector charms into your environment.

    juju deploy local:trusty/cabs
    juju deploy local:trusty/cabs-collector

The cabs charm needs to communicate with the Juju API server. In order to do that, you'll need to set the juju-secret configuration key. This is the "password" field in any bootstrapped environments, .jenv file, or the `admin-secret` key in your environments.yaml file. One way to achieve this is to run the following command:

    grep "password" ~/.juju/environments/$(juju switch).jenv | awk '{ print $2 }'

Then set the juju-secret key for CABS by doing the following.

    juju set cabs juju-secret=<admin-secret>

Once that's set, the cabs charm will finish it's configuration and you'll be able to browse to http://ip-address:9000/ to view and compare the benchmark metrics.

Stand up your target environment. For example, if we wanted to benchmark a mediawiki deployment, we would do something like this:

    juju deploy mediawiki
    juju deploy mysql
    juju deploy siege

    juju add-relation mysql mediawiki:db
    juju add-relation mediawiki siege

    # Setup the subordinate relation between cabs-collector and the services to be benchmarked
    juju add-relation cabs-collector mediawiki
    juju add-relation cabs-collector mysql

    juju add-relation cabs cabs-collector:collector

    # Relate the benchmark-aware charm to cabs so we can launch benchmarks from the CABS UI
    juju add-relation cabs siege

# Basic use of the UI

The CABS dashboard provides you with a high-level view of benchmark statistics, including:
- The name of the service:benchmark.
- It's state; running, queued, errored, or complete.
- The unit or service the benchmark was run against.
- The composite result; a single representative unit to judge the benchmark by.
- The length of time it took for the benchmark to run, including any standing up or down required by the benchmark.
- When the benchmark was launched.

You can launch actions directly from the CABS dashboard, rather than using the `juju action` command. Clicking on the "Launch Benchmark" button will give you a form where you can select the available benchmarks from any benchmark-enabled charm. Select the benchmark you'd like to run, choose the unit(s) to run against, the tag(s) you'd like associated with this run, and any configuration options and press "Launch". You'll then be returned to the dashboard, where you can monitor the status of the benchmark.

## Benchmark Details

Clicking on a benchmark name will take you to a page with the parameters, results, and collected metrics from that benchmark run.

## Comparison

When you have more than one of the same type of benchmark, you can compare two or more benchmarks.

Moving your mouse over a benchmark will backlight all benchmarks of the same type and highlight the best scoring benchmark.

Use the selector to choose benchmarks to compare. Once two or more benchmarks are selected, the "Launch Benchmark" button will offer a drop-down option to compare.


## Importing/Exporting data

You can export and import CABS benchmark data in two ways:
- Via buttons on the CABS dashboard
- Via API endpoints

### Exporting

The "Export Data" button will download a JSON file of all the benchmark data in the CABS database. This includes benchmark data generated in the current environment as well as data previously imported from other environments.

The exported file includes benchmark data, metric data, graph data, profile data, and comparison data. The file may be saved and later imported into another CABS environment.

    # API Export
    curl http://ip-address:9000/api/export > /tmp/export.json

### Importing

The "Import Data" button will display a file upload form. Upload a JSON file that was previously exported from a CABS environment. Multiple files may be imported one after another, making it possible to consolidate data from many different CABS environments.

    # API Import
    curl -X POST http://ip-address:9000/api/import -d @/tmp/export.json --header "Content-Type: application/json"

# How to write benchmarks

Benchmarks are written as [Juju Actions](https://jujucharms.com/docs/stable/actions) on charms. Benchmarks are typically either an [action](https://jujucharms.com/docs/stable/actions) on the service you wish to benchmark, a service which solely does benchmarking (load generation), or a subordinate which, when related, installs a benchmark suite.

Please refer to the [Juju Docs](https://jujucharms.com/docs/devel/authors-charm-benchmarks) for further details on developing benchmarks for Juju Charms.

# Charms with benchmarks
 - [siege](https://github.com/juju-solutions/siege)
 - [cassandra](https://github.com/juju-solutions/cassandra)
 - [hadoop](https://code.launchpad.net/~aisrael/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-client/benchmarks)
 - [pts](https://github.com/phoronix-test-suite/phoronix-test-suite/tree/master/deploy/juju/trusty/pts)
 - [mongodb](https://jujucharms.com/mongodb)
 - [mysql-benchmark](https://github.com/juju-solutions/mysql-benchmark) (works against mysql, percona, and mariadb)
 - [Rally](https://jujucharms.com/u/marcoceppi/rally/trusty/0)

Commit message:

Update local link syntax, cabs expose, and admin password
This patch updates the readme to:
- correct the syntax on the local repository link
- ensure the user exposes the CABS charm so the service is exposed and can be access via a web browser
- updates the process to get the admin password from the environment using the Juju API
- adds code syntax around configuration variables

README.md, after:

# Overview

CABS, or Canonical Benchmarking System, is a set of Juju Charms to repeatedly run benchmarks across multiple different substrates (bare metal[x86, POWER, ARM], public, private cloud) and continually improve on the services and benchmarks. CABS is able to perform the following tasks:
- determine which benchmarks can be run for a given environment
- list available benchmarks to run
- run and track benchmarks
- collect performance data
- report on results
- compare benchmark runs

The main intent is to allow folks interested in a given workload to repeatedly run a benchmark across multiple substrates, and enable quick experimentation to improve the service's performance. CABS takes care of the benchmarking infrastructure so the focus is on the science of tuning.

The CABS charm is the main way the user will interact with the benchmarking environment. The CABS charm provides a GUI that allows the user to perform the above mentioned actions.

CABS is a proprietary tool developed by Canonical built on top of Juju free to all [Certified Public Cloud](http://partners.ubuntu.com/programmes/public-cloud) partners.

# Getting the CABS charms

If you are reading this you may already have done the following steps. However, for the sake of completeness and reference be sure you have gotten the charms and placed them in a charm directory.

Set up a [local](https://jujucharms.com/docs/stable/charms-deploying#deploying-from-a-local-repository) Juju Repository, an example follows:

    export JUJU_REPOSITORY=$HOME/charms
    mkdir -p $JUJU_REPOSITORY/trusty

Download the CABS and CABS Collector charms from LaunchPad

    cd $JUJU_REPOSITORY/trusty
    git clone git+ssh://<LP-USER>@git.launchpad.net/cabs
    git clone git+ssh://<LP-USER>@git.launchpad.net/cabs-collector
    
# Getting Started

This guide aims to lead a user from zero to benchmarking. Prerequisites include:
- Knowledge of [Juju](https://jujucharms.com) and how it [works](https://jujucharms.com/docs/stable/getting-started)
- [Juju 1.24 recommended](https://jujucharms.com/get-started), Juju 1.23 minimum
- A [Juju bootstrapped](https://jujucharms.com/docs/stable/getting-started) environment
- Downloaded CABS and CABS Collector charms


# Configuring CABS

Assuming you already have a Juju environment [bootstrapped](https://jujucharms.com/docs/stable/charms) you will first need to deploy the cabs and cabs-collector charms into your environment.

    juju deploy local:trusty/cabs
    juju deploy local:trusty/cabs-collector

The cabs charm needs to communicate with the Juju API server. In order to do that, you'll need to set the `juju-secret` configuration key. This is the "password" field in any bootstrapped environments, .jenv file, or the `admin-secret` key in your environments.yaml file. One way to achieve this is to run the following command:

    juju api-info user password

Then set the `juju-secret` key for CABS by doing the following.

    juju set cabs juju-secret=<admin-password>
    
Expose the CABS charm so the CABS GUI is accessible via a web browser.

    juju expose cabs

Once the CABS charm is exposed and `juju-secret` set, the CABS charm will finish it's configuration and you'll be able to browse to http://ip-address:9000/ to view and compare the benchmark metrics.

Stand up your target environment. For example, if we wanted to benchmark a mediawiki deployment, we would do something like this:

    juju deploy mediawiki
    juju deploy mysql
    juju deploy siege

    juju add-relation mysql mediawiki:db
    juju add-relation mediawiki siege

    # Setup the subordinate relation between cabs-collector and the services to be benchmarked
    juju add-relation cabs-collector mediawiki
    juju add-relation cabs-collector mysql

    juju add-relation cabs cabs-collector:collector

    # Relate the benchmark-aware charm to cabs so we can launch benchmarks from the CABS UI
    juju add-relation cabs siege

# Basic use of the UI

The CABS dashboard provides you with a high-level view of benchmark statistics, including:
- The name of the service:benchmark.
- It's state; running, queued, errored, or complete.
- The unit or service the benchmark was run against.
- The composite result; a single representative unit to judge the benchmark by.
- The length of time it took for the benchmark to run, including any standing up or down required by the benchmark.
- When the benchmark was launched.

You can launch actions directly from the CABS dashboard, rather than using the `juju action` command. Clicking on the "Launch Benchmark" button will give you a form where you can select the available benchmarks from any benchmark-enabled charm. Select the benchmark you'd like to run, choose the unit(s) to run against, the tag(s) you'd like associated with this run, and any configuration options and press "Launch". You'll then be returned to the dashboard, where you can monitor the status of the benchmark.

## Benchmark Details

Clicking on a benchmark name will take you to a page with the parameters, results, and collected metrics from that benchmark run.

## Comparison

When you have more than one of the same type of benchmark, you can compare two or more benchmarks.

Moving your mouse over a benchmark will backlight all benchmarks of the same type and highlight the best scoring benchmark.

Use the selector to choose benchmarks to compare. Once two or more benchmarks are selected, the "Launch Benchmark" button will offer a drop-down option to compare.


## Importing/Exporting data

You can export and import CABS benchmark data in two ways:
- Via buttons on the CABS dashboard
- Via API endpoints

### Exporting

The "Export Data" button will download a JSON file of all the benchmark data in the CABS database. This includes benchmark data generated in the current environment as well as data previously imported from other environments.

The exported file includes benchmark data, metric data, graph data, profile data, and comparison data. The file may be saved and later imported into another CABS environment.

    # API Export
    curl http://ip-address:9000/api/export > /tmp/export.json

### Importing

The "Import Data" button will display a file upload form. Upload a JSON file that was previously exported from a CABS environment. Multiple files may be imported one after another, making it possible to consolidate data from many different CABS environments.

    # API Import
    curl -X POST http://ip-address:9000/api/import -d @/tmp/export.json --header "Content-Type: application/json"

# How to write benchmarks

Benchmarks are written as [Juju Actions](https://jujucharms.com/docs/stable/actions) on charms. Benchmarks are typically either an [action](https://jujucharms.com/docs/stable/actions) on the service you wish to benchmark, a service which solely does benchmarking (load generation), or a subordinate which, when related, installs a benchmark suite.

Please refer to the [Juju Docs](https://jujucharms.com/docs/devel/authors-charm-benchmarks) for further details on developing benchmarks for Juju Charms.

# Charms with benchmarks
 - [siege](https://github.com/juju-solutions/siege)
 - [cassandra](https://github.com/juju-solutions/cassandra)
 - [hadoop](https://code.launchpad.net/~aisrael/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-client/benchmarks)
 - [pts](https://github.com/phoronix-test-suite/phoronix-test-suite/tree/master/deploy/juju/trusty/pts)
 - [mongodb](https://jujucharms.com/mongodb)
 - [mysql-benchmark](https://github.com/juju-solutions/mysql-benchmark) (works against mysql, percona, and mariadb)
 - [Rally](https://jujucharms.com/u/marcoceppi/rally/trusty/0)
